aria2 – downloading just about everything. Torrents included.
arpwatch – Ethernet Activity Monitor.
bmon – bandwidth monitor and rate estimator.
bwm-ng – live network bandwidth monitor.
curl – transferring data with URLs. (or try httpie)
darkstat – captures network traffic, usage statistics.
dhclient – Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol Client
dig – query DNS servers for information.
dstat – replacement for vmstat, iostat, mpstat, netstat and ifstat.
ethtool – utility for controlling network drivers and hardware.
gated – gateway routing daemon.
host – DNS lookup utility.
hping – TCP/IP packet assembler/analyzer.
ibmonitor – shows bandwidth and total data transferred.
ifconfig
ifstat –  report network interfaces bandwidth.
iftop – display bandwidth usage.
ip (PDF file) – a command with more features that ifconfig (net-tools).
iperf3 – network bandwidth measurement tool. (above screenshot Stacklinux VPS)
iproute2 – collection of utilities for controlling TCP/IP.
iptables – take control of network traffic.
IPTraf – An IP Network Monitor.
iputils – set of small useful utilities for Linux networking.
iw – a new nl80211 based CLI configuration utility for wireless devices.
jwhois (whois) – client for the whois service.
“lsof -i” – reveal information about your network sockets.
mtr – network diagnostic tool.
net-tools – utilities include: arp, hostname, ifconfig, netstat, rarp, route, plipconfig, slattach, mii-tool, iptunnel and ipmaddr.
nc
ncat – improved re-implementation of the venerable netcat.
netcat – networking utility for reading/writing network connections.
nethogs – a small ‘net top’ tool.
Netperf – Network bandwidth Testing.
netplan – Netplan is a utility for easily configuring networking on a linux system.
netsniff-ng – Swiss army knife for daily Linux network plumbing.
netstat
netwatch – monitoring Network Connections.
ngrep – grep applied to the network layer.
nload – display network usage.
nmap – network discovery and security auditing.
nmcli – a command-line tool for controlling NetworkManager and reporting network status.
nmtui – provides a text interface to configure networking by controlling NetworkManager.
nslookup – query Internet name servers interactively.
ping – send icmp echo_request to network hosts.
route – show / manipulate the IP routing table.
rsync
slurm – network load monitor.
snort – Network Intrusion Detection and Prevention System.
smokeping –  keeps track of your network latency.
socat – establishes two bidirectional byte streams and transfers data between them.
speedometer – Measure and display the rate of data across a network.
speedtest-cli – test internet bandwidth using speedtest.net
ss – utility to investigate sockets.
ssh –  secure system administration and file transfers over insecure networks.
tcpdump – command-line packet analyzer.
tcptrack – Displays information about tcp connections on a network interface.
telnet – user interface to the TELNET protocol.
tracepath – very similar function to traceroute.
traceroute – print the route packets trace to network host.
vnStat – network traffic monitor.
websocat – Connection forwarder from/to web sockets to/from usual sockets, in style of socat.
whois
wget –  retrieving files using HTTP, HTTPS, FTP and FTPS.
Wireless Tools for Linux – includes iwconfig, iwlist, iwspy, iwpriv and ifrename.
Wireshark – network protocol analyzer.






Source:
https://ipcisco.com/network-commands-in-linux/


NETWORK COMMANDS IN LINUX
February 18, 2020Posted by gokhankosem2Linux
network-command-in-linux-ipcisco-k

 
Table of Contents	
What Are The Top Network Commands in Linux?
arp command
arpwatch command
bmon command
curl command
dhclient command
dig command
dstat command
ethtool command
ftp command
host command
hping3 command
ifstat command
ip addr command
iptables command
iftop command
ifup / Ifdown command
iwconfig command
netstat command
nslookup command
nload command
nmap command
ping command
route command
scp command
sftp command
ss command
ssh command
tcpdump command
telnet command
tshark command
tracepath command
traceroute command
w command
wget command
whois command
Related posts:
What Are The Top Network Commands in Linux?
 


 
Linux is used in the servers as an operation system in many networks. It is the most important and widely used operating system in the World. There are various Linux Commands. Some of these commands are used more in networking and they aremore important for network engineers. In this lesson, we will learn important Network Commands in Linux.

 

You can also access Top Linux Commands and Download Linux Command Cheat Sheet!

 

network-commands-in-linux-ipcisco.com


 
Here, we will learn the below Top 35 Network Commands in Linux:

arp command
arpwatch command
bmon command
curl command
dhclient command
dig command
dstat command
ethtool command
ftp command
host command
ifstat command
ip addr command
iptables command
iftop command
ifup/ifdown command
iwconfig command
netstat command
nload command
nmap command
nslookup command
ping command
route command
scp command
sftp command
ss command
ssh command
tshark command
hping3 command
tcpdump command
telnet command
tracepath command
traceroute command
w command
wget command
whois command


Now, let’s talk about each of these Network Commands in Linux used for network activities by network engineers or system admins.

 

arp command

To see the ARP Table of your server, you can use “arp command”. There are some parameters that can be use with arp command, but to see the default Linux ARP Table, you can use this command with “-e” parameter.

 

$ arp -e

Address                  HWtype  HWaddress           Flags Mask            Iface

192.168.1.1             ether   00:aa:45:12:00:11   C                     eth0

 

arpwatch command

arpwatch command is used to monitor ethernet activity and Ethernet/ip pairings. Arpwatch can be used with various parameters. For example, if you use “-i” parameter, you can use arpwatch for a specific network interface. Or you can use “-d” parameter for debugging.

 

$ sudo arpwatch

$ sudo arpwatch –i eth0

$ sudo arpwatch –d eth0

 

ipcisco-network-commands-in-linux-1-k

bmon command

bmon command is used to monitor bandwidth, captures data and provide a human-readable data with this  information.

 

$ bmon

 

curl command

curl command is one of the Network Commands in Linux that is used for file transfer. Curl can use various protocols like HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, FTPS, SFTP, SCP etc.

For example, with the below command, you can download abc.txt from xyz.com to your local machine.

 

$ curl –O https://xyz.com/abc.txt

 

dhclient command

 

dhclient command is used to analyze clients ip address, subnet mask, gateway, dns server etc. It also provide to release and renew ip addresses.

 

For example, to renew eth0 ip address, we can sue the below command:

$ sudo dhclient eth0

 

dig command

 

“dig” is the abbreiation of Domain Information Gropher. It is mainly used for simple DNS lookup to DNS Server like CName, MX records etc.

$ dig google.com

$ dig google.com

 

dstat command

 

dstat command is the replacement for old commands vmstat, iostat, mpstat, netstat and ifstat that collects and shows system resources. This command is also sued with Python and extend its functionality.

 

To see the real time system resource statistics , you can sue dstat command alone:

 

$ dstat

 

ethtool command

 

To check the settings of your Network Interface Card (NIC), you can use ethtool command. This command, allows you to configure these parameters like speed, duplex etc.

 

$ ethtool eth5

 

We can use ethtool command with various parameters. For example, we can use the below command to force this interface to have 100 speed and full duplex.

 

$ ethtool –s speed 100 duplex full

 

ftp command

FTP is the most used File Transfer Protocol used with Linux. With ftp command, you can connect ftp session and then with various commands you can transfer files. You can also connect directly to the remote host with ftp command.

 

$ ftp

ftp>

 

$ ftp 192.168.1.1

 

linux network commands, linux tips 

host command

 

Host command is used IP-Name matchings. You can get the results both for IPv4 and IPv6.

 

$ host www.google.com

www.google.com has address 173.194.38.180

www.google.com has address 173.194.38.176

www.google.com has address 173.194.38.177

www.google.com has address 173.194.38.178

www.google.com has address 173.194.38.179

www.google.com has IPv6 address 2404:6800:4003:802::1014

 

hping3 command

hping3 command is a a packet analyzing tool that can analyze and assemble TCP, UDP, ICMP etc. packets. With hping3 command, you can start the session and then you can write its commands.

$ sudo hping3

 

It is used for penetration testing, firewall testing, network testing, advanced port scanning, advanced traceroute, tcp/ip stack auditing etc.

 

To capture the traffic form a specific interface, we can use the below command set:

$ sudo hping3

> hping recv eth0

 

ifstat command

ifstat command is used to monitor network interface statistics. These statistics can be bandwidth usage, received frames, discarded frames, errors, collisions etc.

$ ifstat eth0

 

You can use “-z” parameter to clear the statistics and start again.

$ ifstat –z eth0

 

ip addr command

 

“ip addr” command is the Linux command that is used for network interfaces and routing activities. The previous command used instead of this command was “ifconfig”. With this Linux network command, you can both check the interface information like ip addresses, mtu values etc, and you can modify ip addresses.

To check interfaces and their info we can use “ip addr show” command. With this command, all the interfaces of your device will be on the screen with its networking info.

$ ip addr show

Beside checking, how can we assign an ip address to an interface? It is very simple in Linux. We can use “ip addr add” command to add an ip address to an interface. Let’s add 10.10.10.1 ip address to Ethernet 1.

$ sudo ip addr add 10.10.10.1/24 dev eth1

Like adding, removing an ip address form an interface is done with the same command with a small difference.

$ sudo ip addr del 10.10.10.1/24 dev eth1

 

If you would like to list all the up links, you can use the below commad:

$ ip link ls up

 

iptables command

iptables command is a tool that is used for ip packet filtering. With iptables command, we can set up ip table rules and with these rules we prevent unauthorized access to our device, network. iptables command can be used with various parameters.

 

This command can be used like below:

$ iptables [-t <table-name>] <command> <chain-name> <parameter-1> \<option-1> <parameter-n> <option-n>

 

There is a “chain” that includes several rule.And there are “tables” that includes several chains. To list the rules under these chains and tables, we use “-L” and “-t“ parameters.

Below, our chan name is Chn1 and table name is Tb1. We can list the rules related with these chain and table with the below command.

 

$ iptables -L Chn1 -t Tb1

 

network-commands-in-linux-2-ipcisco-k

iftop command

iftop command is one of the Network Commands in Linux used to display current bandwidth usage on network interfaces. You can also use this command for a specific interface with “-i” parameter.

 

$ sudo iftop

$ sudo iftop -i eth0

 

ifup / Ifdown command

On your servers, there are network interfaces. You can administrativaly enable or disable these interfaces. The keywords for these job are “ifup” and “ifdown”.

$ ifup eth3

$ ifdown eth4

 

iwconfig command

iwconfig command is used to configure wireless interfaces. You can configure SSID, frequencies etc. any other parameters related to your wireless network interface.

$ iwconfig eth0

 

You can use iwconfig command with various parameters and with these parameters you can set your wireless network interfaces.

 

netstat command

To check network connections, we use “netstat” command on Linux. “netstat” command is very useful especially for troubleshooting activities.

Without any options, “netstat” gives the open socket information. But, there are many netstat options. For example if we use “netstat -r”, it gives us the routing table information.

$ netstat

$ netstat

Active Internet connections (w/o servers)

Proto Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address           Foreign Address        State

tcp       0     0 192.168.42.1:37442 mirror.comp.nus.ed:http TIME_WAIT

tcp       0     0 192.168.42.1:45772 riksun.riken.go.jp:http ESTABLISHED

tcp       0     0 192.168.42.1:51281 mirrors.isu.net.sa:http TIME_WAIT

…

 

nslookup command

“nslookup” is used also for DNS Query. It gives DNS Server information.

$ nslookup www.google.com

Server: 192.168.42.1

Address: 192.168.42.1

Non-authoritative answer:

Name: www.google.com

Address: 2a00:1450:4017:809::2004

172.217.17.164

 

nload command

nload command is also a bandwidth monitoring tool. It also shows the total bandwith usage, minimum bandwith usage, maximum bandwith usage etc.

$ nload

To check a specific interface, you can use “devices” option.

$ nload devices eth0

 

nmap command

With nmap, open ports are checked on any device. This command is used for also security audits. Nmap shows, what services are available and what are their offerings, operationg systems, other characteristic etc.

$ nmap

 

Nmap command is used tos can large networks, so it is a very useful audit tool.

 

ping command

“ping” command is the most used command in networking world. Ping is used on Linux similar with the other platforms like cisco, juniper etc.

“ping” command can be used with various options. We have talked about these options detailly in “Ping Command For Linux” lesson.

$ ping 192.168.1.1

 

route command

To check the IP Routing Table on Linux, we use “route” command. You can see all the defined and learned routes in these tables towards any destination.

 

$ route

 

Kernel IP routing table

Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface

192.168.42.0    *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth5

192.168.21.0    *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth4

link-local      *               255.255.0.0     U     1002   0        0 eth0

default         192.168.1.1    0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0

 

Routing Table can be manuplated also with additional parameters like “add”, “delete”, “flush”. For example:

 

To add a route:

$ route add -net 192.168.10.1/24 gw 192.168.1.1

 

To delete a route:

$ route del -net 192.168.17.1/24 gw 192.168.2.1

 

scp command

“scp” is used to secured file transfer between different hosts. You an copy your files to another device in the network or you can get these files also from them with scp. You can copy both files and directories. For directories, you should use extra “-r” parameter

 

From local host to remote host:

 

$ scp $filename user@targethost:remote_path

$ scp myfile.txt ipcisco@192.168.15.1:/xyz/remote_files

$ scp –r /local/my_works/  ipcisco@192.168.15.1:/xyz/directory_1

 

From remote host to local host:

 

$ scp user@targethost:remote_path local_path 

$ scp user@targethost:/file.txt /local/my_files/

$ scp –r user@targethost:/xyz/directory_2 /local/my_works/

 

sftp command

sftp command is one of the File Transfer Protocols used in Linux. It is a secure file transfer protocol. With SFTP, FTP is used over SSH.

$ sftp ipcisco@192.168.5.1

 

ss command

ss command gives detailed information about the sockets.We can use “-l” option to list listening sockets and “-t” option for tcp connections only.

 

$ ss -l

$ ss -t

 

ssh command

“ssh” is a secure connection command used in networking. In Linux, we can use “ssh” to connect any node. We can use “ssh” command with username and IP or Domain name.

$ ssh gokhan@200.200.200.1

System administrators uses telnet and ssh usually to connect the server sor network devices that they manage.

 

tcpdump command

Tcpdump command is the most used analyzing and capturing command in Linux. With this commmand output, you can see TCP transmissions on your network

 

$ sudo tcpdump -i eth0

 

Here, we have checked the default Ethernet interface’s TCP traffic.

telnet command

“telnet” is a classical connection command used in networking. In Linux, we can use “telnet” to connect any node. We can use only ip address or ip address and port number with “telnet” command.

$ telnet 200.200.200.1

 

tshark command

tshark command is one of the Network Commands in Linux used for packet analyze and stronger command than most used tcpdump. It is a  Wireshark utulity.

 

To capture the traffic on an interface, we can use it with “-i” parameter.

$ sudo tshark –i eth0

W can list all the interfaces that we are capturing with “-D” option.

$ sudo tshark -D

 

tracepath command

tracepath command is a similar path tracking Linux command like traceroute command. But you do not need to be superuser to use tracepath command. With tracepath, you can list the host series on the way to a destination.

 

$ tracepath www.google.com

 

traceroute command

 

“traceroute” is a command that is used to check the nodes on the way to a destination from your system. In other words, it checks the hops and their availability. “traceroute” command is used widely in network World and the usage of this important network command is also same in Linux Systems.

 

$ traceroute google.com

traceroute to google.com (172.217.17.164), 35 hops max, 60 byte packets

1 192.16.43.1 (192.16.43.1) 0.122 ms 0.042 ms 0.042 ms

2 175.42.102.1 (175.42.102.1) 0.422 ms 0.151 ms 0.151 ms

3 * * *

4 * * *

…

 

w command

w command is used to check the current system activity. This can be a user activity or any process related to the system. You can list the current users on your Linux machine with w command.

$ w

10:12:15 up 1:12, 5 users, load average: 0.54, 0.46, 0.12

USER     TTY       LOGIN@   IDLE   JCPU   PCPU WHAT

İpcisco  :0       10:12   ?xdm?   4:07 0.11s gdm-session-worker [pam/gdm-password]

İpcisco  pts/0     10:12   0.00s 0.12s 2.42s /usr/libexec/gnome-terminal-server

 

wget command

“wget” is used to download the content of the web servers. You can also download a specific file from the web server.

Below, you can see wget command that will download abc.txt from xyz.com.

 

$ wget http://xyz.com/abc.txt

 

whois command

Whois commands check the whois database and return with IP and Domain information.

 

$ whois www.google.com

 

Here, we have seen most important Network Commands in Linux related with your Network Operations.

 

You can also access Top Linux Commands and Download Linux Command Cheat Sheet!

 

linux-network-enigneer-ipcisco


GO ON BOARD
Related Posts:
16-Reasons-To-Learn-Linux16 Reasons To Learn Linux ftp-ports-ipciscoFTP and FTP Ports linux-ping-commands-ipcisco.comPing Command in Linux OSPFv2-on-eNSPOSPv2 Configuration on Huawei eNSP eigrp-packet-tracer-ipciscoEIGRP Configuration With Packet Tracer

 
PREVIOUS

WHAT IS A NETWORK PROTOCOL?
NEXT

CYBER ATTACKS, NETWORK ATTACKS
   
2 Responses to “Network Commands in Linux”


RizkiHW / March 13, 2020 / Reply
thank you for your information and tutorial guyss :)


gokhankosem / March 14, 2020 / Reply
You are always welcome Rizki:)Enjoy!

Leave a Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name * Email * Website 
Comment 

Contact
info@ipcisco.com
Subscribe to NewsLetter
 
IPCisco is the Winner! “Best Certification Study Journey of 2019!”
Cisco-ITBlogAwards-2019-Winner-IPCisco-k

 
SEARCH
Python File Create 
Part of: Python Programming Course 
Python File Delete 
Part of: Python Programming Course 
Python File Write 
Part of: Python Programming Course 
Python PIP 
Part of: Python Programming Course 
Python File Open Function 
Part of: Python Programming Course 
Network Commands in Linux 
Part of: Kali Linux Course 
Python RegEx 
Part of: Python Programming Course 
Linux File System 
Part of: Kali Linux Course 
Python Lambda 
Part of: Python Programming Course 
Python Try and Except 
Part of: Python Programming Course 
MORE LESSONS

 
WHAT YOU WILL FIND?

250.000+ Students All Over The World
8.000+ Questions & Answers
100+ Lab Files & Cheat Sheets
30+ IT/Network Courses
A Real Desire To Help You
Daily Social Media Shares
%100 Satisfaction
COURSES

CISCO Courses
NOKIA Courses
HUAWEI Courses
JUNIPER Courses
KEY Courses
VIDEO Courses
UDEMY Courses
ONLINE Courses
SPECIALS

All Quizes
Cheat Sheets
Configuration Files
Interview Questions
IPCisco On Social Media
 

ADDRESS

Pärnu mnt. 139c – 14, 11317, Tallinn,Estonia
MENU

About
Contact
References
Login
Membership
 

EMAIL

info@ipcisco.com

Copyright © 2018-2021 IPCISCO          Disclaimer          Privacy Policy       Distance Selling Contract                    


